# DNS Guard

Most operating systems with TCP/IP support baked right into the crust realize that DNS is of such critical importance to everything else in the stack that a single, unambiguous source of truth is a hard requirement for keeping track of name resolvers. Almost 30 years ago, some lonely little boy with a chip on his shoulder at Apple decided that this wasn't complicated enough so he invented the "System Configuration" system which curates a potentially endless number of sources of truth in an extremely opaque way, clumsily backporting all of its numerous concurrent states into `/etc/resolv.conf` for compatibility with tools that do not give a shit what Apple does. 

The results have yielded no tangible benefit to anyone, anywhere, but the design choice persists to this day because nobody else wants to go near that angry little boy's nightmare code. Instead, you can frequently find yourself in situations where something resolves in Safari but not in Chrome. Or it resolves in Chrome but not Safari. Or maybe it resolves in Chrome and Safari but not in `dig`. Or maybe it resolves everywhere and then you connect to a VPN and suddenly something breaks even though the routing table looks perfectly fine. All because of one boy's love of résumé driven development and fear of being replaced by one of Steve's friends.

This tool's purpose is to serve as a cast iron middle finger you can shove up Johnny Apple's ass whenever you get tired of deciphering what `scutil` says and just want one specific set of nameservers consulted at all times on all interfaces. It does this by watching all of the DNS-related keys in the System Configuration data store for changes. When one occurrs that brings the list of active resolvers out of compliance with your wishes, it brings it back into compliance by force. No mercy. 

There is tremendous potential for competition with some other piece of software's attempt to do the exact same thing in which case you'd have two or more System Configuration observers repeatedly flipping the same switches back and forth over and over and over ad infinitum. For this reason, most people should never even attempt to run this tool. If you want to do it anyway, here it is. Add it to `launchd` if you want it to run all the time. 

Apple has recently exposed a new app extension interface which lets you write your own DNS Proxy capable of diverting all DNS traffic to one specific location. This would probably be a much better way of accomplishing things than my approach here, but you can't even build a DNS Proxy extension without joining their paid developer program so fuck them. 